To give a strong boost to the growth ambitions of the company and to strengthen its maritime presence globally, Royal HaskoningDHV has appointed from its own ranks five maritime leaders in key positions worldwide.With a strong track record in the industry, Royal HaskoningDHV has one of the world s largest teams of maritime professionals in place, working in more than 40 countries.Craig Huntbatch, Business Line Director Maritime &amp; Aviation, Royal HaskoningDHV said: We always strive to ensure that we have the best people in place so that we can constantly adapt to our clients needs. As part of our strategy it s important for us to have talent and expertise spread across the globe. The new appointments bring significant strength to our regional and global growth ambitions. Africa, Middle East and India Johan van Voorthuizen (48) has been appointed as Director of the Maritime Business Unit AMEI covering Africa, the Middle East and India. He succeeds Martijn van den Berk, who has decided to pursue his career outside the company.Johan has been with the company in various leading maritime positions since 1995. With extensive experience across the Netherlands, Americas, Africa and Asia, he has a strong track record of developing and growing business and talent in teams across the globe. Johan will remain responsible for the Business Unit Maritime Netherlands &amp; Americas.Johan van Voorthuizen said: The recent award of a multi-million dollar maritime assignment in India, and ongoing port projects in Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Oman show that there are plenty of opportunities in the AMEI region to explore and capitalise on. Johan will be backed by Cameron Smith, who has been appointed Director Maritime Advisory Group in Dubai. Cameron (48) has been in the Middle East for 8 years and has built up specific knowledge and an extensive network in the region.Johan van Voorthuizen continued: I am confident that we can further grow and develop our business in the region with the established team operating from Dubai led by Cameron and our strong staff presence in India under the continued leadership of Aslam Bijapur. Europe Stuart White (44), currently Director Advisory Group Maritime UK, takes over from Johan van Voorthuizen as Director of the Business Unit M&amp;A Europe. Stuart has built strong client relationships and has extensive experience in the United Kingdom and the international maritime business. The Business Unit consists of 180 maritime experts who work on exciting projects such as the Maritime Yard Project in Saudi Arabia for Saudi Aramco and studies in Renewable Energy Options for the Port of Mombasa, Kenya.Stuart White commented: Following a career of 20 years with Royal HaskoningDHV, I am really excited about this new challenge. My primary focus will be to build on and grow established successes and to further develop innovative and digital solutions that meet our clients changing demands. South East Asia Starting 1 August, Bas van Dijk (41) will head the Ho Chi Minh office as Director of the Maritime Advisory Group in Vietnam. Given his extensive international experience, Bas is tasked with expanding the team in Vietnam. I am looking forward to building on a successful team already in place, maximising the Vietnam office to the full extent and making it into a global expertise centre that complements those already established in the UK and the Netherlands, Bas van Dijk said.He will work alongside Hieu Nguyen who takes on the role of Associate Director for Maritime Vietnam. Hieu (35) will build upon his key strengths of leading and developing the local team and his knowledge of the Vietnam market.Craig Huntbatch concluded: With this strong team, I am confident that we will further strengthen our maritime footprint worldwide, continue to provide our employees with great opportunities for personal growth and work to ensure that we deliver innovative solutions for our clients .