 Consulting Engineers and the engineering community are once again gearing up for another spectacular occasion celebrating innovation, quality, outstanding workmanship and professionalism in the engineering industry, says Chris Campbell, CEO of Consulting Engineers South Africa (CESA).The CESA Aon Engineering Excellence Awards dubbed the Oscars of the Engineering World will be held on the 16th August 2017 at Vodacom World, in Midrand.This prominent event, organised by CESA and sponsored by Aon South Africa is one of the highlights in the engineering and construction industry calendar and the 2017 Awards promise to be better than ever. This year over 47 submissions were received. The Awards Function is widely attended by the engineering who's who of South Africa, Consultants, Contractors, Suppliers, Academics, related Institutions as well as Clients bodies from both the Public and Private Sectors.The awards provide CESA with the opportunity to showcase the extent to which local built-environment professionals provide the best in engineering expertise. The occasion is about recognising and thanking all the participants for their role played in the country s infrastructure development, a key requirement for economic growth of our Country .An enormous responsibility rests on the shoulders of consulting engineers in delivering cost effective and appropriate engineering solutions. This challenge is compounded by the often unreasonable expectations of Clients expecting unreasonable discounts on professional service fees whilst the risks related to overly aggressive bidding remain that of the service provider. Competition is good and always encouraged but surely there is a tipping point where quality is compromised and risks unduly increase. Such practice is unsustainable for our industry and Clients need some level of education on the real value of such services Campbell added. It s our role at Aon South Africa to support a healthy Consulting Engineering industry whilst ensuring that at all times, the most professional and qualified teams are used to provide such services to minimise the risk exposure to both the Consultant and the Client every step of the way, says Terence Williams, CEO of Aon South Africa.The Engineering Excellence Awards honour outstanding performance in a wide range of categories. These include large and small, as well as local and international projects. It even acknowledges visionary Clients as well as future leaders in our industry through the Young Engineer of the Year award.