Construction has begun on the first phase at Asrin Property Developers South Breeze development in Strandfontein. Completion of these homes is expected from October 2017 onwards, with handovers from November 2017. Sales of units to date has been good, says Rehana Moosa, marketing executive for Asrin, with 60% of the 83 homes now sold. The selling point of these homes has been that the majority are freestanding houses and they are all separate title with private gardens that are fully walled, said Moosa. There are two and three bedroom units available at South Breeze, priced from R699 900 to R799 900, including VAT and transfer duty costs.The homes here will have superior finishes such as granite countertops and stainless steel hobs and ovens. Quality ceramic tiles or laminated floors will be used in all the units. In addition, green energy initiatives such as solar water heaters will reduce electricity consumption, resulting in lower electricity bills each month.Play parks have been included in the development s landscaping plan to allow children to enjoy the outdoors while remaining within the safety of the village. South Breeze is conveniently located in terms of access to local amenities and public transport, which is right on its door step. The Dennegeur Avenue Primary School is only 600m away and the Strandfontein Secondary School is less than 1km away, and its immediate site neighbours are the local public library and a family clinic. In addition, it is a mere 400m to the local supermarket and within close proximity to other retail centres. This secure non-gated estate offers residents community living within Old Strandfontein and offers the buyer a contemporary lifestyle at an affordable price. While it is not gated, the village has full perimeter walling topped with electric fencing and only has one entrance and exit point, which adds to its security. Homes at South Breeze should appeal to all age groups, be it young professionals, to a young family beginning life s journey or the retired down scaler seeking a secure, peaceful lifestyle, said Moosa. 