The Gauteng Department of Roads and Transport has spent over R3 billion undertaking heavy and light rehabilitation of the road infrastructure along various corridors in the province since 2014.The department said this was done in line with the Provincial Government s commitment to providing a world-class road infrastructure.MEC for Roads and Transport, Ismail Vadi, said the injection of funds into capital projects is meant to facilitate improved mobility, promote economic growth and stimulate the development of small and emerging contractors.It also aims to maintain the road network in a good condition so as to improve road safety.In the current financial year, the department s allocated budget is R6.8 billion with R1.9 billion specifically earmarked for transport infrastructure. The provincial roads maintenance grant is being effectively used to keep our network in good shape. Twelve major road rehabilitation projects such as the N12; the N14 and the R82 from Eikenhof to Walkerville have been completed. Work on the remaining section of the N14 is underway. Twenty five service providers have been appointed for routine outsourced maintenance, MEC Vadi said.As part of the Gauteng Freeway Improvement Plan, nine roads were rehabilitated as alternative routes to e-tolls. Benefits to motorists include improved road user mobility; increased roadway capacity; reduced travel times; easy access to business, residential and agricultural estates, as well as improving general road safety. A number of interchanges along routes have also been improved, the provincial department said.It has a road network of 5 638 kilometres, with 1 388km being gravel roads. The network includes 676 bridges and 428 culverts. The total asset value of the network is calculated at R25.5 billion. The latest Pavement Network Report shows that 71% of our surfaced roads are in a very good, good or fair condition showing an improvement on the previous report, MEC Vadi said.Biennial bridge inspections are undertaken to ascertain their structural integrity and to carry out repairs as and when warranted. 