Employment for over 270 residents hailing from the six wards surrounding the New Horizons Township has been provided by GVK-Siya Zama during the construction of the new Plettenberg Bay Magistrates Court.Not only have the specialists in large-scale construction and refurbishment eclipsed their target for using community labour by 303%, they have more than doubled the number initially set for the appointment of local subcontractors. Plus, they have procured materials from nearby suppliers. All this in an effort to enhance the growth and performance of the Plettenberg Bay economy in critical areas such as skills development, job creation, equity and access to market participation.Uplifting local labourGVK-Siya Zama s local upliftment strategy has resulted in 83% of the workforce on the project hailing from the wards neighbouring New Horizons. In addition to providing secure employment (which in turn impacts the community s economic advancement), training and skills transfer are offered to develop the individual labourer s own growth both for this project and future employment opportunities. Supporting Plettenberg Bay subcontractorsThe company aimed to appoint as many subcontractors from the area as possible, providing them with the opportunity to secure work for a long period and on a large scale. One of the subcontractors selected for the project, Emawusheni Construction, was initially brought on to plaster a small section of the works. However, the superiority of the 100% black female owned firm s work has resulted in the entire plastering contract being awarded to them. GVK-Siya Zama Senior Contracts Manager for the project, Jaco Kotze, says: The quality and the supervision by Sweetness Siko and her site supervisor, Lucky Ndaliso, have been of the highest standards I have seen in this industry. This has been echoed by the entire professional teamCommercial Manager at GVK-Siya Zama, Shaun Lamont, adds: We will gladly put Emawusheni Construction forward and endorse their business for future work. Quality work on a project of this scale expresses the standard of their workmanship, as well as the scope that they are able to manage. I see a bright future ahead for them. Although not all of the technical skills required for this project are available within New Horizons and its surrounds, GVK-Siya Zama has encouraged those subcontractors from outside Plettenberg Bay to employ local labour as part of their production site teams. Backing nearby businessesThe majority of the materials required for this complex, large-scale project were purchased from local suppliers. GVK-Siya Zama Quantity Surveyor, Will Beckett, shares: We are committed to ensuring that through this project, Plettenberg Bay businesses progressively benefit, thus contributing to the growth and performance of the area s economy. The Court, which forms part of the first phase of an urban renewal project for the larger Plettenberg Bay / Bitou Council, will feature four district courts, two regional courts, two family courts and two civil and equality courts. The construction phase is scheduled for conclusion on 8 September 2017. The community will hopefully have a sense of pride when the Magistrates Court project is complete, knowing that they played a pivotal role and contributed to its success, concludes Lamont.