South Africa s financial hub Sandton Central in Johannesburg - will play host to the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) influential annual Africa Summit from 22-23 February 2017.The event, now in its third year, has established itself as a leading forum on Africa s built environment and real estate sectors.The 2017 RICS Africa Summit has been expanded into a two-day event this year, with a workshop and a technical tour on the first day, together with a gala dinner. The second day forms a power-packed conference with high-level local and international speakers from the built environment arena.London-based RICS is a global professional body that promotes and enforces the highest qualifications and standards in the areas of land, real estate, construction and infrastructure. As a public benefit organisation, it operates in all the world s major financial hubs in delivering international standards and policy influence. This year s summit builds on our two previous events in 2015 and 2016. In addition to the highlight conference day, we are planning to have an insightful workshop and technical tour the day before, which culminates in a high profile dinner, says TC Chetty, RICS Country Manager for South Africa. It all adds to what s set to be an exciting programme at the 2017 RICS Africa Summit, with even more networking opportunities. The event continues to be a collaboration of property institutions and associations across Africa, working together to accelerate the professionalism of land, construction and property sectors on the continent, he adds.The annual RICS Africa Summit, supported by major sponsors Colliers International and Cushman &amp; Wakefield Excellerate, is aimed at executives, academics, government leaders and other senior professionals in the built environment, property and infrastructure sectors. It serves as a forum where common goals and a shared vision can be created through consensus and discussion.This year s event will have a strong focus on rapid urbanisation in Sub-Saharan Africa; the availability of land; as well as infrastructure investment on the continent.Noteworthy industry experts and leaders who are confirmed speakers for the 2017 RICS Africa Summit include: Jacob Mamabolo, MEC of the Gauteng Department of Human Settlements; Bennet Kpentey, Chief Executive and Managing Consultant at Sync Consult Management Consultants, Ghana; RICS President Amanda Clack, who is also Partner at EY and Head of Infrastructure (Advisory) for the UK and Ireland; and, Emeka Eleh, a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (FRICS) and Principal Partner of Ubosi Eleh and Company, Nigeria.Chetty adds: We are finalising the programme for this year s summit, and are looking to secure more top speakers. Our collaboration with other industry associations as part of the 2017 event includes a joint mentoring workshop session with the Women s Property Network, which follows on from an initiative that began in 2016 and provides an opportunity for female property professionals in South Africa to share experiences and learn from their UK counterparts. One of the other confirmed events is a technical tour to PwC s new headquarters, which is being developed at the Waterfall City mega urban development in Gauteng. Top financial broadcaster and anchor at CNBC Africa, Gugulethu Cele, is set to host proceedings at the event. Booking for the 2017 RICS Africa Summit, which takes place at the Hilton Hotel in Sandton, is now open. 