Corobrik is delighted to receive the PMR Diamond Arrow Award, the highest rating for the seventh year running. The score is attained after respondents rank their perceptions of Corobrik across eleven attributes and is a public acknowledgement of excellence.Dirk Meyer, Corobrik managing director says, We are proud to receive this award as the research conducted tell us that our clients value our service, something we constantly strive to improve. This year Corobrik has received a mean score of 4.30 out of a possible 5.0.To arrive at the final score relevant respondents in the industry are contacted between December 2016 and the end of February 2017. Each person rates suppliers across 11 attributes, including: ability to meet orders, Black Economic Empowerment, competitive pricing, deliveries meeting promises, environmentally friendly solutions, flexibility, range and quality of products, response to queries, reputation and sustainable development practises. We would like to thank our clients, building materials retailers and members of the construction industry for their honest evaluation. The result confirms the consistency in our performance, continues Meyer. We would like to pay tribute to our staff. Without the dedication of all staff, who are shareholders in Corobrik, this award would not have been achieved. The company continually strives to improve manufacturing processes to meet world class standards and so are continually working towards improving ISO accreditations. Currently, of the 15 factories, fourteen have an ISO 9001 rating with eight achieving the ISO 14001 and OSHAS 18001 environmental accreditation. Ten factories have received SANS 228 mark. Product testing is done through ISO-IES 17025 SANAS accredited testing laboratory number T.0158 in accordance with the accredited schedule. Constant investment in research has allowed us to reduce the environmental impact of our products from manufacture to use and reduce energy consumption in buildings constructed from our bricks, concludes Meyer.