A dedicated work ethic and enthusiasm has seen 30-year-old Masana Mabasa quickly rise through the ranks of the Corobrik with her latest appointment as Sales Administration Manager at the Edenvale office, beginning this May. I am very excited to have taken on this new role at Corobrik, working with such a professional team, said Mabasa. It is a really challenging yet ultimately rewarding experience and I look forward to the positive results we will achieve. Her duties in the role of Sales Administration Manager include managing business process, marketing intelligence, co-ordinating internal and external communication as well as Corporate Social Investment (CSI) initiatives, something Mabasa is particularly passionate about. At the moment I am focusing on Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment as well as CSI within the organisation while investigating the best marketing intelligence tool to assess the impact of our current strategies as well as building up other technologies. For the past four-and-a-half years, Mabasa has outdone herself in meeting deadlines and managing a host of expectations in her role as Corobrik s Sales Administrator. Preparing annual sales budgets, running daily sales and order intakes as well as preparing budgeted sales volumes and sales revenues were just a few of the duties that dominated her working life. I m definitely looking forward to the social aspects of my new position, finding ways that Corobrik can really make a difference in the lives of surrounding communities, she explained. This is very much at the heart of the organisation and I m going to really embrace this opportunity. Before joining the Corobrik team, Mabasa worked at various levels with a number of prominent organisations including GVK Siya Zama Building Contractors, M and M Construction, Stabilid Construction (Pty) Ltd, NMC (Pty) Ltd and Prodev (Pty) Ltd. In her roles as quantity surveyor, construction technician and construction administrator, Mabasa gained a wealth of experience which she has used effectively to enhance the Corobrik brand. I ve learnt so much during my time in the construction industry and I m learning so much in my new role, said Mabasa. I m grateful to be in such a dynamic business in a company that challenges and appreciates its employees. When not tackling projects as Sales Administration Manager, Mabasa who resides in Randpark Ridge, Johannesburg - said she enjoys running, reading and spending quality time with her family. 